so for me in essence a super house is
something that is beyond the everyday
you know we're very used to certain
conventional ways of living but clever
architects can interpret the sight the
brief the materials and they can deliver
it in a way that is quite it takes people
beyond but in a beautiful way
and is very adaptive to their lifestyle we
did have a certain criteria around
around what we were looking for and
connection to nature was actually really
major and it does provide quite a thread
throughout the book and the exhibition
when you look at that that connection so
excite was very important this 360
delivery of form was very important a
great interior was important but also
that it had something to hook on to
conceptually so that might be an idea
that was delivered through technology or
through crafts and so it meant that it
just had to have one central idea that
took it beyond the everyday
to me there are many things that would
make a house a super house that would
elevate it to that level and you know it
can be in in terms of the location the
construction the elevation the
dimensions all of those things would
make a house a super house but for me
the really important element is the
emotional one I need to have that
emotional attachment to a house as well
it can tick all the boxes in terms of its
construction and size and everything
but it needs to have an emotional appeal
to me as well a super house to me is
something that's actually able to stand
on its own two feet and really have its
own personality and its and demonstrate
this kind of clear thinking and it's
anything that really responds to the
brief the client the context and and and
create something that we haven't seen
before it's it's it's uniquely relevant
for that project to me is super house is
a architectural perfect storm it's got
everything going it's got the right
materials it's got the right sides got
the the right feel and I think most
importantly for me it challenges the
conventions of how you think a house
should be and then once you get there
you go I don't yeah I get this I could
live here this is like the perfect space
it's the space where you go it's the
house that gives you envy I think the
most important thing is super house
should have is a place for all your old
junk so that you can chuck it all in
here and no one complains that it's in
the living space so this is what I love
the term super house I don't think has
anything really to do with the design of
a building I think through design houses
can be super as an outcome and we would
never sit down roll up our sleeves and
say let's make this one a super house I
think the super house is a combination
between a client their brief
and the architectural response to it
well I think what's great about the
houses in this exhibition is they just
take a different perspective on everyday
living and I think that's why people can
identify with it they can think oh I
could live like that or I couldn't you
know when I talk to young Bentham about
his tiny highs I said how did you deal
you know with children and staff and so
forth and and those are you know real
issues and but they were prepared to
live that way and I think it's that
creativity of approach and again the
openness to how things might be or could
be
that really helps push these concepts
forward and allows you to have something
that is personally super a house I
visited on Sydney's Northern Beaches
almost 16 years ago was probably my
first encounter with a super house it
was an extraordinary place designed by
the architect Richard Laplace 3a and set
back just from the beach hidden there
amongst the palms totally dictated by by
the weather and by the geography of the
area the house was just to me an
absolute gem and I have never forgotten
it I can remember sitting there in that
home as clearly today as if it was
yesterday
and it was just remarkable because it to
me represented a whole new way of living
and it was it was my entree into a whole
new continent and a whole new Hemisphere
and for me that was definitely a super
house my super house it's the sheets
Goldstein house by John Lautner and
Lorton are designed the house from
inside out and and and everything within
it so it was a complete package and kind
of sounds a little bit like a major
control freak moment but you know
everything the house itself including
all the furnishings and little
accessories are designed for it but it's
an amazing achievement you know back in
the 60s there probably weren't concern
with them with safety like we are now I
think I've seen some images of people
walking around and you know being able
to almost fall
you know to their mercy down into the
you know into the bush but we have to
navigate all of these rules and
regulations nowadays and still come up
with something extraordinary kind of
sucks
I think Lautner was probably a rock star
of architecture it was a bit of I don't
care I just want to make it cool so what
would be in my view a super house will
be over maize Bordeaux house and it is
you know the brief or I should decline
for the house is a paraplegic person and
his family and the unique nature of the
briefing it has necessitated the
architect that totally rethink how the
house is organized Horizonte and also
vertically and what I'm a did was to
design a very large four by four meter
platform which also acts as a room and
that platform is really a lift at the
same time that there's in the center of
the house and it totally by putting it
in the center powers it totally
structures the house around that lift
around that platform and in doing so
does reorganizes and we thinks what a
house in everything's a traditional
house Dulli because of the unique nature
of the brief well I think that there are
so many incredible examples you know
around the world but the one the one
that I feel connected to you know super
houses for me
yeah are these traditional Island homes
built you know often by the occupant and
owner you know with very basic materials
that have been collected salvaged from
the place itself often where they there
is the traces of hand at every level of
making where they've you know cobbled
the place together with with friends and
family I think it's the fingerprints of
of a human endeavor or of activity of
their and that those fingerprints or
traces are important because they reveal
authenticity it doesn't remove the story
the human story and narrative if I think
places need to have a human story and
narrative and they need and that's how
we generate this kind of visceral
response to the things
it was very important to me that small
spaces had cut a role to play in this
exhibition as well because I think
that's the the way things are trending
and the ingenuity required from
architects to deliver something small
and powerful it is a great example of
how the thinking is expressed and so in
in the exhibition we have we have
several great examples that are very
diverse so one is in Ireland and it's
the Golding summer house which is tiny
and was originally built really as a
sort of party house really as a dance
floor cantilevered over a river it it
did the winter is sort of a period of
ruin and is recently being been revamped
to have a more domesticated feeling that
it now has a you know a bedroom and a
small kitchen and bathroom but it
remains this kind of wonderful museum
pavilion suspended over over the river
in a way that it's very unusual in
Ireland particularly in that period and
then on the other hand you have in a
very dense urban environment you have
Dominic alvaro small house which was a
tremendous global success and an
award-winning project and that was
taking a sort of almost unbuildable tiny
car park site and turn it turning it
into something through clever planning
and into something that was light filled
and and quite beautiful
yeah I mean we we've been looking in
Surry Hills and we found this particular
site it was a seven by six meter side
but it was in a laneway
it wasn't on the on a primary street and
it was also adjacent a 12-story office
building and it was essentially an empty
car park for to two or three cars but at
the same time 7 by 6 meters whilst the
perception is that is actually small for
me I saw that as a key opportunity and
it did immediately upon visiting the
site was actually this is quite
substantial if you took a six by six by
six volume it's quite a substantial
volume and most living spaces in modern
apartment buildings don't even get
anywhere near six metres my first
reading was well this is amazing this is
huge this is a big space I could really
manage this quite neatly and the fact
that I was surrounded by tall buildings
also gave me the confidence that
actually the height won't become an
issue once you get elevated over the
second level it has an amazing view back
to back to the CBD that started to sit
where we might locate the living space
and then we had a living space and
entertainment and sleeping so that they
just become zones and so we thought well
we don't want the sleeping zone to be
elevated on the rooftop we want it to be
more of a sanctuary and more low down it
was really about getting that living and
entertainment elevated as high as we
could because you move either up to the
roof terrace or down to a living space
or the kitchen then became this sort of
hub between the three living spaces so
actually low down it's quite solid the
house sits there punched windows it's
quite protective it is this idea of a
sanctuary let you go into this concrete
bunker and inside is this sanctuary of
of your home in the city and then as you
move out from the lower levels it just
opens up to being very light very
spacious the ambient daylight was
tastic we actually built the house in
four days because of the small footprint
because of the repetition we built
off-site we fabricated everything
off-site we assembled it all on-site
proofing prefabricated so it was you
know lift one two three four and the
entire house was built yeah you have to
close the road and that's expensive but
you're only doing there four times so we
delivered a building for the cost of an
apartment and delivered the finishes and
all of the the value adds that I wanted
in in the project so it works really
hard this more like it works very hard
on many levels and I think that's what
makes it a super house it's not so much
the super houses is super in terms of
Bhrigu impressive it's about does it
work for my life and Canada adapt to my
changing life so I might you know have
kids or kids might leave or I might feel
like it at certain times I'm working a
lot from home or we're out of home a lot
so you know can it expand and contract
with me as my as my life continues so
that is something that adaptable home
and that home that really suits the kind
of life I I want to leave that's a super
house the trunk house is located in a
forest in the central highlands of
Victoria it's just stringing back
forests so there's almost no ground
cover it's just just the trees you know
quite a you know very under present
canopy as well but I guess from the
outset ourselves architects and the
clients were keen to integrate the house
into the context of the forest so that
at certain points the structure of the
house is almost a confusion or a
blurring between the structure of the
house and
the trucks in the forest with the
engineer pedophilic Shetty we came
across the idea of using the tree trunks
of our vacations to act as supporting
members for the house I mean it's the
kind of project where we really needed
the right engineer and the right builder
and the right craftsman become sculptor
to put the bifurcations together you
don't want it to look too rustic
you know - kitsch so you get someone
with the skill to be able to to work
these bifurcations and join the tops and
the columns which have different
diameters and cross-sections to join
them so it looks like a fluid form takes
a lot of skill and time the house is
basically you know one giant trusts so
it's very strong even though the the men
was a you know they're only about that
that diameter they're quite thin but but
very strong it's a very small house
that's the size of an apartment
basically because it's a weekend but we
don't tend to see that as a limitation
in the interior and living areas that
it's all timber and that was even a
conscious affect the timber lining
internally on the living room walls is
stringy bug so when the trees were
removed to make way for the house
construction it was a milling machine
that came on site milled down those
stringy back trees that were removed
those boards were seasoned over about
eight months or so
they weren't exactly sure what kind of
figuration would get more grain after
they've been milled but we were really
pleased because the grain has a lot of
character so to apply the term super
house to the trunk house for me is about
the idea that this house is about going
into a forest and developing a concept
in this case using bifurcations using
forms in the ecology in a very primary
sense to create the concept of the house
well you know the first time I looked
the site up it was some it was like sort
of going into God's country it's looks
like this I haven't really been to any
other places like that before
so you sort of enter the valley and you
really feel like you're in this
incredibly secluded area and you also
feel like you're in a very it's not only
sort of more inspiring its beauty but
you've got the its flanked by two large
mountain ranges so you really feel like
you're very safe and secure and on the
side there's a creek that runs through
the site and so one of the very
important parts of the brief was that
the house had to be sited near the creek
we oriented the house along the axis
that along the axis of the mountains
because it was formed such a strong line
it was very hard to ignore it so that
that became the sort of access for the
whole design and we had to incorporate
to sort of stone cottages that were part
of the sort of history of the site and
apparently they'd been Bushrangers in
the area that had hidden out quite a
famous bushranger was there so we kind
of felt it was very important to
maintain the cottages as as part of the
house I'm sort of very fascinated with
the idea of grafting so the idea of
grafting in in Japanese gardens where
they there's an existing sort of tree
and they might sort of chop it all
they'll alter it in some way or they
might add another piece to it and so the
new piece becomes part of almost part of
the whole so you wouldn't really know
so that that approach was taken so that
the the new part of the house sort of
almost becomes part of the old part so
that the two cottages are sort of framed
by by the new house but they become like
sort of these jewel like sort of special
kind of parts of the house there's quite
deep overhangs on the roofs that's
really protecting you and from rain and
some sort of shelter the roof of the
house is angled so that they perfectly
frame the mountain range so you sort of
see the whole top of the mountain range
see so it's not cut off halfway there
sort of angling right up so that you
sort of see the whole mountain range the
new materials we still wanted to use
something that was almost part of the
site as well so even though it's a light
material we used iron bark which is a
reference to a lot there's a lot of iron
bark trees in the area rough sawn iron
bark
it's used externally everything inside
the house is very sort of smooth and
jewel-like
and we've used black but ply along the
bedroom wing there's also a bit of
rammed earth that we used in the house
so we've used sort of local earth and
did lots of experimentation with
different types of rammed earth walls
and the colour kind of it's quite
related to the colour of the earth yeah
we've also used brass mesh on all the
outside sort of deck areas which give
you protection from the mosquitoes and
the insects and flies and that sort of
thing but also enable you to look
outside sort of almost like you're in
your own little world but you can look
out but you don't really feel like
you're you're being observed yourself
the surroundings become the thing that
you really look at rather than the
inside of the house it's almost like a
sort of frame for looking for looking at
the outside so the house itself has is
quite zen-like and quite has a sort of
sense of calm
it was just great working on a project
where you're in such a fabulous place
it's quite a privilege to be able to
design something that is really sort of
particular than that area are in very
special better and
becomes part of the area so I think
that's quite a great opportunity for an
architect so we know that humans and you
know you know respond to places and I
think super houses are these places that
we immediately feel a visceral response
to we don't necessarily always know why
we might think it's because of concrete
or the way that a circulation space
works or an incredibly crafted material
but there are other aspects that are
less obvious but you know as critical in
terms of building a sensibility and the
feeling of comfort within a space I was
on the Croft house which is near Phillip
Island in Victoria it's on a pre exposed
part of coastline and faces east so the
winds blow offshore there which makes it
a bit easy because you can just face the
view and have the wing behind you where
I came about was I was there for three
days and I didn't mind being
embarrassing myself by walking like an
idiot walking around and looking
confused so I pretty much just did that
and I knew that I was there with the
owners and we were staying there in the
old place that was there and and I knew
they were worried healthy but on the
third day looking silly and wandering
around thinking I realised that a very
unique thing was happening there with a
weather Trey's world bending towards the
ocean so the wind was coming from behind
and so a scheme really needed to put its
jacket up to the collar up to the wind
and protect itself in that way the idea
of a courtyard house was a pretty good
model because you could make a protected
place and so there was a few experiments
of can I do a courtyard house that
doesn't have redundant space in long
corridors doesn't have the double-headed
blinkers because the courtyard houses
give me this
you know shuts off all of that can i
tape it off and just make it disappear
hollow out the ends you know maybe a
bathroom would work well in the end sure
enough did work well so I understand
that it seems that this is a complete
thing that's been placed and then the
owners have had to somehow find a way of
living in this form but it didn't evolve
that way I mean sure enough as that
shape evolved there was long bananas
washed up kind of sea cucumbers there
was you know until it was practically it
started as a exercising passive solar
Shore and the owners don't use in
heating or any cool and that works by
having a lot of thermal mass furthermore
inertia and well insulated and I think
the form probably does a little bit for
windchill these forms probably do a lot
to shoot the breeze over and not really
take the heat out of the building and
that was part of the looking at the
Croft house of hundreds you know
Croft houses on the north of Scotland
and ground-hugging things so this
landscape is evolving in a certain way
with erosion the gel and geology
fertility of the ground winds and rain
so what if this architecture was to look
at these natural systems and try and
work in with them and to have them
generate the architecture so I super has
to me steps
away from convention and in a way it's
almost endemic it's evolved in a place
those kind of qualities I think we all
innately really enjoy because if we go
traveling
it's those look at how these guys are
living here you know that kind of
uniqueness and it's not to say that
generic modernism isn't exciting - and
doesn't have a role to play but me
personally interested in how it's
twisted and evolved and part of a system
of a place culturally and physically
look I think contemporary design is is
very respectful now towards tradition
and towards the past and nothing excites
me more than when I see a project come
across my desk of a beautiful old house
that has been very sympathetically
restored with a modern extension I like
the journey that that can take you on
through the home and I actually do like
it very much when there are two distinct
halves to the house where the the old
hat the old half the traditional half
has its own distinct personality and
then you sort of cross the threshold
into the contemporary but it's done in a
seamless way and it's done in a
respectful way that really respects the
heritage of the original home we
suffered the design of the scholar house
in 2009
it's a terrace house which is located in
in Balmain and the inner-city fabric in
Sydney is pretty well intact and I think
it's important to remain tane the the
front facade
especially when they've formed out of a
continuation of a row terraces I think
that's very very important
and not ain't it not only to maintain
the the tourist hospice art but also the
form of the other more the main body of
the terrace house I think you know that
that's very very important because what
we were interested in is a counterpoint
between in a traditional form the
traditional facade and how that
counterpoints or how that is juxtaposed
against aid we're not quite a
contemporary interior what we decided to
do was to invert the terrace house
traditionally in the two-story
terrorists you know here you have the
living rooms on the ground floor and the
bedrooms on the top floor and we
basically flipped that we put the living
rooms on the top floor many to take
advantage of the views towards
Parramatta River toward the front of the
house and also to take advantage of the
sculptural reforms you know sort of
sculptural skylights most terrace houses
you don't see the sky because you're
bounders had built up you know houses
built up along the boundary so that's
quite a rare experience so we wondered
we wanted to be able to see the sky that
was very important and our general
approach you know during the design
process was to really look at the
housing section rather than the plan
because it's all about the light coming
down to the top is all about the
vertical circulation as the living rooms
from the top floor rather than the
ground floor so as you interfere the
front door you enter into a three storey
high space you know poppy apply the
skylights and then you rise up the
flight of stairs and as you reach the
top of the stairs with the living room
ease your your adjacent to a lovely tree
in your mother the courtyard so and
that's very sort of different from a
traditional terraced house experience
you know the scar lie isn't just a
simple device which allows light to come
in
it's a volumetric device which are
beliefs and sculpts the space at the
same time
and by placing a sheet of glass on the
outside the opening you eliminate the
frame so the frame doesn't interrupt the
view between the the inside and the
outside so in our case what we were able
to do by limiting it frame you get the
the white roof forms juxtaposed against
the blue sky so the experience is it's
quite surreal you can only achieve that
through the detailing by placing the
painted glass on the outside of the
opening you know I'm most happy with the
way the life end of the house and
secondly I'm very happy with the way we
engage with the urban fabric and we
respected the additional terrace house
for money and the facade by the same
time we've introduced continuous phases
within the house so is that some
adjusted position which were most happy
we have also
I was recently lucky enough to go to
Richard Rogers house in Chelsea in
London and talking about super houses it
was extraordinary absolutely
extraordinary and it's a great architect
and this home represents everything that
he's ever done and you walk up to it and
it looks like a typical Georgian house
and then you open the door it's splashes
of color and so behind it is this
enormous triple space white room super a
per plant open planned but super livable
and I think that respect from nod to the
past that's what makes it bring it
because you don't know what to expect
he's a big name of international
architecture and he said bitties own
home that isn't cozy in any way but yet
it is cozy because somehow his talent is
to make cavernous spaces full of glass
and steel and white walls feel like you
could happily live there and read a
paper and feel on top of the world
I'm gonna talk a little bit about
concrete because I'm obsessed with it
there there is something about concrete
in terms of its transgression as a
natural material and as a man-made
material but it's a capacity to sculpt
and form its imperfection it's one of
those things that has a reach level of
patina and there is something about that
tactility of materials I mean concrete
but also worn you know timber that grows
over time or mild steel that begins to
rust
it tells an authentic story it tells a
story of you know of things our
activities evolving over time it's not
looking to and begin to transparent it
tells you the truth about what it is
even precast panels in that are you know
formed up in factories will all have
their own level of you know of patina
and history and narrative and story in a
steady much like the fingerprints of
humans
I guess the provocation of this project
for us was that the client have lived on
this site for many years I think 25
years we felt there was an opportunity
to provide the client into doing a house
that was much more suited to the
collection of art that they had a
substantial collection of art we
challenged them or provoked them into
thinking about what we could do what we
could achieve if we started again on
this site and as a little bonus the
house next door came up for sale and so
we suggested that it might be a nice
idea to purchase that and instead of a
going for the usual ridiculous idea of a
tennis court that we actually reach a
house across two sites so that was that
was the start of this project for us yes
I guess there are a couple of major
conceptive driving forces and the site
itself is one of them because it's
actually almost honor honor on a cliff
it's very steep site we knew we had to
have something that would step down the
site but we wanted the building to
really contribute to the surroundings
and anything it's in a context of a lot
of very large very nice houses but
they're all very nice as when you're
inside the house and all they do to the
street is create a blank wall and we've
set out to really do something a lot
more sculptural that could really
contribute back to the street we wanted
to I guess create a sculpture that was
livable very important for our clients
that this was not an art gallery it was
a home so in a sense we wanted Pauline I
wanted to create the scholar in the
landscape and then show the clients how
we can make
we looked at many different artists we
loved the goo she was one of them and
against Noguchi for us had sculpture
that was linked and connected and
created voids and for us just beauty so
you know looking at the Noguchi and we
started off with this original idea
about you know when you try and step
something down it starts to create these
holes and volumes and that actually was
more about not so much even what we were
building but the spaces we were creating
we started to shift things around to get
things to functionally work and get the
towels and things to work and then
finally and it was really out of
responding both to the brief the sun the
privacy or all those are the things that
make an actual house turn something from
a sculptor to a house responding to all
those elements is what ended up getting
us a sort of final formed twisted for
the Sun and twisted for the headland
view and functionally fitted all the
different pieces in it so yeah I made a
client happy but very important when we
put the notion to them that the house
could actually also be a sculpture
itself in the landscape and really
contribute that they were excited by
that idea I don't know how many clients
would be so that's true it's true credit
to them fantastic that they they took it
on they had the courage to do that then
I think people don't read this as as a
house necessarily they're looking beyond
it and they're looking around it as a
sculpture but even when you come inside
the house and again Kali talks about the
obsession with you when you come into
this house you don't see with you and it
was we were very adamant that you
wouldn't just have that typical open the
door huh you so they actually I blocked
of you
and turning turning Carol now : that
walk Clinton's walk right I think it's
history so how could you do this we've
got this beautiful view and you walk
into this house and you put a wall in
the way but of course the viewers
revealed URL so just this tiny slice
them that sends you long but it's not
the big well the the choice of concrete
was fairly simple really because we
needed a material that you would read as
sculptural so roof and wall and ceiling
and and surfeit it all had to be the
same material now course concrete is
perfect for them because you form it up
in those shapes there's a real strength
and solidity to it and yet there's a
delicacy around it as well so the way
the glass slides into the concrete even
the detailing of the balustrade is this
great contrast between the robust nature
of the material and the delicacy of
certain elements and with with the out
because the art is spectacular
primarily cubist realism in his contrast
with this really robust building so I
think it is audacious to do a house like
this in this location in Sydney and then
we were given an award a local council
award for this house for the
contribution to the built environment
now that is amazing because my second
said let's be honest when we bring our
first meetings with the client regarding
our design we weren't particularly
positive about how this might be
received at council so we had to say to
our client look baby steps here because
we might fall over the first hurdle but
the house was embraced by the planners
from day one and we had no problem with
approval and here it is an audacious
house for this part of the world
official concrete is great because as I
get older I realize maintenance is
always an issue so you build a concrete
house and you choose not to paint it all
you got to do is hose it and I see I see
so much beauty in concrete and why is
that those great brutalist buildings
that I grew up with so you know schools
were brutalist the cinema was brutalist
my university was brutalist and so it
there's a real nostalgic feel Paul for
me for Brutalism and then oh if I see it
in a domestic setting I don't have a
problem with it but I don't know I'm a
modernist so there's there's no way I'm
not gonna subscribe to the fact that you
can live in a concrete box with glass
windows and you know there's some soft
furnishings salts everything
Linda's house was conceived to be part
of a very ancient landscape and the
Victorian coastline is typify die
secondary and tertiary June systems that
give a undulation and a soft roll to the
landscape and we wanted the house to be
part of that not to reflect it but to be
part of that landscape and in fact go
further and appear as if it was built
millions of years ago covered over and
then eroded away and exposed like it had
been part of a Skeletor remain of an
ancient marine creature the brief for
this house was quite an open idea there
were some pragmatic things about the
number of bedrooms etc that they use it
as a beach house but it's more than a
beach house for them the house is more
of a vehicle for them to use as a family
but also to use with extended family and
friends so it's more of a sanctuary or a
haven for them to come down and have the
opportunity to be alone or with a large
group of people the the design of the
house is based on to a degree a sense of
mystery so on arrival there's a blank
wall and a door in it which is a bit
like a small proscenium arch in a
theatre and when you draw the curtains
or open the door it exposes you to a
magnificent view so there is kind of an
excitement attached to that a quiet
excitement on the Victorian coastline
where the view is is usually where the
weather comes from so we've provided
North facing courtyards that are
protected from the southerly weather
where the swimming pool is for example
so there are all different places that
you go to around the house
depending on climate and also that
facilitates a sense of Zoning throughout
the house so everyone's got privacy so
it's effectively or like to boomerang
shapes with a little zipper of glass
between us that gives people aspect and
view without others being able to look
look at them through the design of a
house like this you simply can't see
from one end to the other there's
mystery that activates your engagement
with the house so the visceral quality
of the body in the building is part of
that mystery so that you can't
necessarily know what the plan of the
buildings like you actually have to be
active in seeking that out and moving
through the building because of the
curves within the building and the
timber beading we can disguise drawers
so you just see the shape of the wall in
a series of handles but you don't see a
wall with a frame with a door in it so
the sculpted form is highlighted by the
use of materials I think there are
dramatic moments in this house and
things like the stair to the upstairs
bedroom could be you know there could be
a bit of Gone with the Wind in that the
bathrooms are quite brightly colored
they were meant to be dual like there
was meant to be a touch of Hollywood
maybe on the Victorian coastline I mean
I walked into the bathrooms and oh I
smile and I see them because there's
something there is something kind of
luscious about them but the materiality
is quite simple
the scale of the building is based on a
range of activities and sometimes times
our client like just the two of them
might come down and so there's intimate
cave-like areas where they can retreat
to and feel like they're in an intimate
space and also their children have their
own private area so they can retire to
that and they can have their friends
down and go crazy in another part of the
house while other things are happening
elsewhere and then there's more space if
other families are down here so it's
designed so that if you are here alone
you don't feel like you're rattling
around the house there are spaces to go
that you always feel comfortable in the
materiality of the building does make
some reference to bleach driftwood or or
old whale bones
but also it's in a monochromatic palette
which is what our work is about every
time of day it looks slightly different
I think the house still looks quite
fresh and there's a timelessness about
it which is embedded in our work we
we're not architects that respond to
style or decoration on a building the
building is what it is it's a sculptural
form and they're designed to look better
as I get older I mean if we had to drill
down a super house just to three things
my one of my most important would still
be that the connection to site and
connection to nature because that just
brings something the other quality
that's not always possible if you're in
an urban environment and then I would
say it was the the management of light
because in a way that can still draw in
the experience of nature even in in
somewhere that it is more urban and the
third one I think is is that kind of
indefinable quality of poetry or
something that actually when you go into
a space gives you an uplifting feeling
because that was another aspect that was
very important these places should have
a quality that is all inspiring and just
to capture something that makes you feel
different and I think if you if
architects succeed in doing that they've
really really done their job
and then on that concrete house miss
Eddie house I mean that's got yeah give
me that now I don't care whether the
children hurt themselves I just think
it's just extraordinary
give me time so every day beautiful
beautiful basil